In most situations a sharded cluster will create/split and distribute chunks automatically without user intervention. However, in a limited number of cases, MongoDB cannot create enough chunks or distribute data fast enough to support the required throughput.
在大多数情况下，分片群集将自动创建/拆分和分发块，而无需用户干预。但是，在有限的情况下，MongoDB无法创建足够的块或以足够快的速度分发数据，以支持所需的吞吐量。
For example, if you want to ingest a large volume of data into a cluster that is unbalanced, or where the ingestion of data will lead to data imbalance, such as with monotonically increasing or decreasing shard keys. Pre-splitting the chunks of an empty sharded collection can help with the throughput in these cases.
例如，如果您想将大量数据注入不平衡的群集，或者数据的摄取将导致数据不平衡，例如单调增加或减少分片键。在这些情况下，预拆分空分片集合的块可以帮助提高吞吐量。
Alternatively, starting in MongoDB 4.0.3, by defining the zones and zone ranges before sharding an empty or a non-existing collection, the shard collection operation creates chunks for the defined zone ranges as well as any additional chunks to cover the entire range of the shard key values and performs an initial chunk distribution based on the zone ranges. For more information, see Empty Collection.
或者，从MongoDB 4.0.3开始，通过在对空的或不存在的集合进行分片之前定义区域和区域范围，分片收集操作为定义的区域范围以及任何其他块创建块，以覆盖分片键的整个范围值，并根据区域范围执行初始块分布。有关详细信息，请参见空集合。
WARNING
  Only pre-split chunks for an empty collection. Manually splitting chunks for a populated collection can lead to unpredictable chunk ranges and sizes as well as inefficient or ineffective balancing behavior.
  仅空集合的预拆分块。手动拆分填充集合的块可能会导致不可预测的块范围和大小，以及低效或无效的平衡行为。
  
To split empty chunks manually, you can run the split command:
要手动拆分空块，您可以运行拆分命令：

EXAMPLE
  To create chunks for documents in the myapp.users collection using the email field as the shard key, use the following operation in the mongo shell:
  要使用电子邮件字段作为分片键为myapp.users集合中的文档创建块，请在mongo shell中使用以下操作：
  for ( var x=97; x<97+26; x++ ){
    for ( var y=97; y<97+26; y+=6 ) {
        var prefix = String.fromCharCode(x) + String.fromCharCode(y);
        db.adminCommand( { split: "myapp.users", middle: { email : prefix } } );
    }
}
This assumes a collection size of 100 million documents.

For information on the initial chunks created and distributed by the sharding command, see Empty Collection.
有关由分片命令创建和分发的初始块的信息，请参见空集合。
For information on the balancer and automatic distribution of chunks across shards, see Cluster Balancer and Chunk Migration.
有关平衡器和在分片之间自动分发块的信息，请参见群集平衡器和块迁移。
For information on manually migrating chunks, see Migrate Chunks in a Sharded Cluster.
有关手动迁移块的信息，请参见在分片群集中迁移块。

TIP
  See also:
sh.balancerCollectionStatus()
